Game: Duck Detective: The Secret Salami
appid: 2637990
Source: Duck Detective: The Secret Salami
URL: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Duck_Detective:_The_Secret_Salami
Match score: 8.00
Retrieved: 2026-07-04
--------
Duck Detective: The Secret Salami is a 2024 adventure game developed and published by Berlin-based Happy Broccoli Games. It is a comedic detective story where players control a duck detective, Eugene McQuacklin, and investigate a case of stolen salami in the office of a branch of a bus company. Players investigate the scene to find clues and receive words. These words are used to make "deducktions": phrasal templates where words are inserted into Eugene's notebook. It released for Linux, macOS, Windows, Nintendo Switch and Xbox consoles on May 23, 2024, for iOS and Android in collaboration with Snapbreak on April 9, 2025, and for the PlayStation 5 on May 22, 2025.
Annika Maar, the director, had the idea to make a game titled "Duck Detective" after Gamescom 2023. Adventure and puzzle games like Return of the Obra Dinn and The Case of the Golden Idol served as inspiration; the "deducktion" mechanic was "stole[n]" from The Case of the Golden Idol, according to Maar. The detective aesthetic was inspired by the Sherlock Holmes video game series. The setting was inspired by Maar's experience working as customer service for a bus company. Duck Detective: The Secret Salami was developed and published in six months so Happy Broccoli Games would not go bankrupt, after a publisher pulled out of funding them.
Duck Detective: The Secret Salami received generally positive reviews. It was nominated for the 2024 Golden Joystick Awards in the Best Indie Game - Self Published category. It was also nominated for Best Audio Design and Best Mobile Game for the 2025 Deutscher Computerspielpreis. It won in the Best Mobile Game category.
A standalone sequel, Duck Detective: The Ghost of Glamping, was announced in December 2024 and released in May 2025.


== Gameplay ==
Duck Detective: The Secret Salami is an adventure game presented in an isometric perspective; the characters are two-dimensional and have a white outline, while the environment is three-dimensional. Players control a duck detective, Eugene McQuacklin, in a city where all the residents are animals. It is fully voice acted, and there is a button that makes Eugene quack.

In a manner similar to The Case of the Golden Idol, players solve puzzles, called "deducktions", in the form of phrasal templates where the correct words must be inserted into Eugene's notebook. Investigating the scene gives the clues and the words needed to fill the notebook. After the sentence is fully filled, an approximate amount of incorrect words is revealed, unless "Story Mode" is activated, in which case the incorrect words are highlighted.
Scene investigation takes the form of moving around the rooms, interrogating non-player characters, and inspecting objects and characters with a magnifying glass. Occasionally, players must solve miniature puzzles to progress, such as figuring out the password to a safe. There is a hint button in case the player is stuck.
Though the solution to the mystery is always the same, players can choose how to end the game. After completion, players can see what percentage of people made each choice. The game takes two to three hours to complete.


== Cast and characters ==

Sean Chiplock as Eugene McQuacklin: a down-on-his-luck duck detective
Annika Maar as Sophie Wintheimer: a depressed giraffe
Brian David Gilbert as Freddy Frederson: a crocodile obsessed with detectives
Lizzie Freeman as Laura Angst: an overworked cat
Nola Klop as Margaret Whitlock: a motherly sheep
Shane Mullan as Rufus Sederis: a practical penguin
Dashawn Ricks as Manfred Ernst: a bear and a family man
Cyrus Nemati as Boris Petrovic: a naive bull


== Plot summary ==
Eugene McQuacklin is a detective who is recently divorced, broke, and addicted to white bread. Laura Angst hires him to investigate a case at a branch of BearBus, whose buses are always late. When Eugene arrives, no one, including Laura, wants to talk to him. Eugene has to figure out the identities of BearBus's employees: Sophie Wintheimer is the receptionist; Manfred Ernst is the branch manager; Freddy Frederson works in the operating office; Laura and Margaret Whitlock work in customer service; Rufus Sederis is the janitor; and Boris Petrovic is the bus driver.

After this, Laura explains to him that a co-worker, known only as "The Salami Bandit", stole her lunch. She strongly suspects Freddy of the crime, as his bag is full of salami. Eugene realizes that Freddy is being framed because he had taken the wrong bag. Meanwhile, Margaret hosts a surprise birthday party for Sophie. She opens her presents, and one of them is a letter with a hidden, threatening message, attached to salami. Suspicion immediately turns on Freddy. Eugene realizes that salami is being smuggled into the country using BearBus, and that this is the reason why the Salami Bandit is being taken so seriously.
Eugene gathers all of the BearBus employees, except for Sophie, who is missing. He explains to them that there is a criminal conspiracy at BearBus. No one takes him seriously, and they leave him. After this, a note at Sophie's desk is discovered, saying that she has quit BearBus. Eugene investigates her computer, and discovers that she was, in fact, kidnapped by the Salami Bandit, because she wanted to snitch on them. In addition, Eugene discovers a separate criminal conspiracy: Rufus has been blackmailing Manfred to keep him from talking about Rufus's illegal voucher selling, and Margaret is the one who provides the vouchers to Rufus.
Eugene begins to unravel the case. He realizes that Sophie is being held captive in one of BearBus's busses. He compares Manfred's and the Salami Bandit's handwriting, and realizes that they are the same. He deducts that Boris is an accomplice of Manfred's, as he is the only one capable of importing the salami. Sophie is also an accomplice, since she used to date Boris, and Manfred needed someone who could convince Boris to join the conspiracy.
Eugene frees Sophie from the bus, and everyone else joins them. Eugene begins explaining the case to them. Manfred's branch had its budget cut, and so he devised the salami conspiracy to make a better living for his family. For this, he convinced Sophie to trick Boris with a false story to join the conspiracy. Boris took large detours to get the illicit salami, which is why their buses were always late. When Eugene arrived at the scene, Sophie attempted to snitch to the police, but Manfred captured her before she could. The player is then given the choice to arrest one or more of Manfred, Sophie, or Boris.
In a post-credits scene, Eugene realizes he forgot to collect his payment from Laura, and is unable to pay for the bus ride back home. Freddy, waiting outside, offers Eugene a ride back to his office. Eugene, with much reluctance, agrees. During the drive, Freddy offers to be Eugene's sidekick. Eugene doesn't respond.


== Development ==
Developer Happy Broccoli Games is based in Berlin, Germany. In September 2020, they were funded by Coffee Stain Studios as part of its Levelling the Playing Field initiative, which funds studios with "teams that are 50% women, non-binary individuals, or individuals from a variety of backgrounds and cultures". Their first game, Kraken Academy, was released in 2021.
Annika Maar, the director, had the idea to make a game titled "Duck Detective" after Gamescom 2023. After "the publisher that originally was interested in funding [Happy Broccoli Games] was not anymore", they had to drop their planned project, Odyssey Island, which they were developing along with Duck Detective: The Secret Salami. Without funding, Duck Detective: The Secret Salami was developed and published in six months so Happy Broccoli Games would not go bankrupt.
Adventure and puzzle games like Return of the Obra Dinn (2018) and The Case of the Golden Idol (2022) served as inspiration, and the detective aesthetic was inspired by the Sherlock Holmes video game series. The setting and plot twist were inspired by Maar's experience working as customer service for a bus company. Maar said the "deducktion" mechanic was "stole[n]" from The Case of the Golden Idol, and that Happy Broccoli Games wanted to create a more casual take on what they felt was a very serious and difficult game. Joni Levinkind, designer and programmer, described Duck Detective: The Secret Salami as a "mashup" of its inspirations.
The aims for the game were: to have plot twists; to have the player figure out the twists by themselves; and to make a cozy and casual game. To achieve the first aim, the game was written to misdirect the player by showing them a plot unrelated to the actual plot. In addition, a subplot connected to the main plot was included as a sort of red herring.

Speaking on the art direction, a balance was sought between being cute and wholesome and not being seen as aimed towards children. To maintain this balance, a deep voice was sought for Eugene McQuacklin, and the story begins with his addiction to white bread. On the other hand, they avoided profanity, and despite the film noir atmosphere, they cut ashtrays and alcohol from the environments.


== Release ==
Duck Detective: The Secret Salami was announced in December 2023 at Wholesome Snack, an indie game showcase. Marketing and public relations were provided by Future Friends Games. It released for Linux, macOS, Windows, Nintendo Switch and Xbox consoles on May 23, 2024. In September 2024, a limited physical release of 4000 copies for the Nintendo Switch was published by Super Rare Games. It was ported to iOS and Android in collaboration with Snapbreak on April 9, 2025, and to the PlayStation 5 on May 22, 2025.


== Reception ==

According to Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, Duck Detective: The Secret Salami received an average score of 79/100, indicating "generally favourable reviews". According to OpenCritic, 78% of critics recommended it.
Polygon praised its charm and humor, which they said made backtracking to find more clues fun. Given that it only takes a few hours to complete, they hoped Happy Broccoli would add more episodes. Digitally Downloaded, in a 5 star review, enjoyed the parody of hardboiled detective fiction, which was a good hardboiled story itself. PCGamesN called it "funny, entertaining, and satisfying" that is a good value despite its short length. Hardcore Gamer recommended it to gamers who enjoy indie games and crime mysteries, who they felt would not be disappointed by the short length. Nintendo World Report praised the writing and art, though they said they wanted more cases to solve. Although Kotaku was occasionally frustrated by the puzzles, they praised it as a "game full of character". Mystery Magazine  praised the light-heartedness and humour, contrasting it against the usual serious tones of detective fiction, and said that it felt more like a workplace comedy than a criminal investigation. The A.V. Club described it as a "loving homage to noir tropes that nails the balance between comedy and mystery". In a more negative review, while Destructoid praised the art and its attention to detail, it criticized the "deducktion" mechanic for being too mechanical, and that the deductions required to be made were often unintuitive or irrelevant. The plot was also described as poor.


=== Awards ===
Duck Detective: The Secret Salami was nominated for the 2024 Golden Joystick Awards in the Best Indie Game - Self Published category. It was also nominated for Best Audio Design and Best Mobile Game for the 2025 Deutscher Computerspielpreis. It won in the Best Mobile Game category, which came with a prize of €40,000.


== Sequel ==
Duck Detective: The Ghost of Glamping, a standalone sequel, was announced in December 2024 at Wholesome Snack. It is set in a haunted glamping site, and Freddy Frederson returns from the previous game as a sidekick to Eugene McQuacklin. The gameplay and length are similar to its predecessor. It was released on May 22, 2025 for iOS, Android, Linux, macOS, Windows, Nintendo Switch, Xbox consoles, and the PlayStation 5. It won Best Audio Design for the 2025 Deutscher Entwicklerpreis, and it was nominated for Best Audio Design and Best Mobile Game for the 2026 Deutscher Computerspielpreis.


== Potential animated series ==
Happy Broccoli Games intends to create an animated series based on Duck Detective: The Secret Salami. A pilot based on the beginning of the game was released on May 23, 2026.


== References ==


=== Reviews ===


==== Review aggregators ====


=== Databases ===


=== Primary sources ===


=== Other sources ===


== External links ==
Official website
